# API Documentation - Overall System

## **Input Values**:

### Most API endpoints use the POST protocol. This means that all input information must be stored in the **body** of the http call.
**javascript
{
  body: {
    id: 'mwein3',
    pin: 'p@ssw0rd',
  }
}
```

### The API takes request encoded using **x-www-form-urlencoded**. Any requests not using this protocol will result in an error.


---

## **Return Values**:

### Most system return values follow these general rules. If an operation is successful, most returns will look like the following,
```javascript
{
  error: false,
  errorMsg: '',
}
```

### Some endpoints return database information. Most return values will look like the following,
```javascript
{
  numRows: 2,
  rows: [
    {
      f_name: 'Jack',
      l_name: 'Bower',
    },
    {
      f_name: 'Santa',
      l_name: 'Clause',
    }
  ]
  error: false,
  errorMsg: '',
}
```

### If, however, an operation is unsuccessful, return values will always look like the following,
```javascript
{
  error: true,
  errorMsg: 'Invalid credentials',
}
```

### All API operations will return a JSON object with **error** and **errorMsg**. It is important to ensure that **error** is set to **false** prior to retrieving any other information from the resulting JSON object. This will remove the need to use try, catch blocks and add stability to the system.

---

## **User Permissions and Security System**:

### User permissions and security is managed using autogenerated **tokens**. When a user logs in with the correct username and password using **/login** (described in detail in the User Management System documentation), a JSON object including a system generated token will be returned. This token must be retained by the user facing system. It is used, in place of a username and password combination, for most endpoints in this system and is used to lookup the permissions of the user.

#### Each endpoint has specific permissions. For example, **managers** have permission to edit users in the database but **employees** do not. This documentation details every endpoint complete with the permissions needed for access.

### A **timestamp** is retained for each user in the system. The timestamp is the time and date of the last action performed by the user. The user is logged out after 15 minutes of inactivity.